---
date: 2025-12-08
--- 

I was going to write a post about my adventures with homelabing, on a old Chromebook that I've repurposed for it. (What can I say? I really do enjoy repurposing old tech!)

But after a few months tinkering with Alpine Linux, and Docker containers. I find that I may be over complicating my setup. Especially since I'm using legacy hardware, and I'm pushing this old Chromebook to its limits anyways.

I've decided to wipe it clean and set-up good 'ol reliable Debian. Which just recently had a new release; Trixie.

So far, I'm really liking it! I miss OpenRC the most, but since I'm only hosting Jellyfin]() now, instead of like 2+ containers and services. The system is overall running pretty well and cool.

For remote access, instead of going through the hassle of setting up a static IP and a Wireguard tunnel, I've decided to just set-up Tailscale, and forget about it!

Which has everything I need to remotely access it and transfer my media files over to the micro SD card. Most old chromebooks only have 16GB of built-in eMMC(Embedded Multi Media Card) storage. And I find the best way to add more, is to use micro SD cards as they sit flushed with the device and it's more tamper resistant.

This Chromebook also pulls double-duty as a desktop with Plasma 6, and the experience is fine, mostly. As soon as you fire up any modern web browser though, thats when things get heated. (Literally...)

From all my testing, I find that Chromium browsers run best. (Sorry FireFox fans!)

Even so, and especially with low memory devices such as these. You absolutely *need* an adblocker, for a decent-ish experience, and even then that's not enough for streaming sites. Expect constant interruptions. Best to just forget about streaming, and just download videos with the fantastic yt-dlp CLI tool, IMHO.

Although, even then is best to not download anything over 720p, quality wise. While it can handle 1080p, it starts to thermal-throttle and both cores max out at a constant 97%. So not recommended lol.

But is plenty usable for less intensive stuff. Makes for a great kitchen computer! With the added bonus of serving our media library.


